---
title: Working with Repos
unit: Drone Backend
order: 7
---

## Overview of Process

{% include responsive.html source="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18O2d2u5BVG0pdTKo5z60V7a4XJ6sR491A174Boay6bo/preview" %}

## Naming Conventions

The computer really doesn't have a preference for how you name branches or write commit messages. Those are for the human beings that you'll be collaborating with on your project. Most teams have conventions that they will follow in order to make sure everyone is on the same page.

### Branch Names

Choose a convention for your team to follow. I like to use a keyword followed by a `/`, then the task id, and finally a short description. For example:

- feature/issue1_add-stuff
- bugfix/issue2_fix-error
- experimental/dark-theme

By putting the keyword followed by the `/` you can search for all branches using that keyword. To search branches use, `git branch --list "keyword/*"`. In this command you are requesting any branch (represented by the `*`) that begins with the `keyword/`. This will help you sort through what is avaiable.

Some keywords to consider:

```
wip         Works in progress
feature     Feature being added or expanded
bug         Bug fix
experiment  Throwaway branch created to experiment
```

Some teams place their GitHub username at the beginning of a branch name (i.e. `dnbailey/feature/short-description`). Other teams will include an issue number (i.e. `issue02/fix/short-description`). Whatever you choose, make sure everyone on the team knows the convention and make sure you follow that convention. **It may seem minor compared to writing code, but organization and planning is half of the work.**

### Commit Messages

Commit messages are written for your team. Often we are working on a feature on our own, and when we push the code to GitHub our commit messages act like a journal of what we have done during that development cycle. Don't neglect your commit messages. Part of being a professional is paying attention to the details.

Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

For longer commit messages, use the command `git commit -m ‘Short summary’ -m ‘Longer description’`. For example:

```
Short (72 chars or less) summary of changes

More details explanatory text. wrap it to 72 characters. The blank line
separating the summary from the body is critical.
- Bullet points are okay, too.
- Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet,
  followed by a single space. Use a hanging indent.
```

## Let's Practice

We're going to practice this process separately from our current project in order to make sure you get it. Open the new assignment below, accept the assignment, and follow directions in the README.

[Open Project on GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/g/mTTqf8qi){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

Collaborate on completing the task. While everyone must demonstrate mastery on their own, you should be asking each other questions about how to complete the task. Lean on each other as you try to work through this assignment.
